oh that's much better thank you all
right welcome everyone to I PFS Berlin
meet up um we're streaming live tonight
hopefully there's some people out there
watching the great talks um we're gonna
have about hour and a half of talks and
we're going to start with double Diaz
giving introduction to I PFS and then
talk about package management on I PFS I
believe we have and there it's probably
being tweeted right now yeah you don't
need ya to watch the streaming on this
Wi-Fi okay cool thank you and thank you
all for coming and it's really a
pleasure and I can really excited to be
here today because like it's not only
the first official meet up in rowland
it's actually the first official meet up
in a spaceship a real special then you
first c vies for hosting us and it's
definitely the right venue to make a
stink about some problems that will come
when we start becoming an interplanetary
civilization right we have been confined
to the single planet for quite some time
and we are really acquainted with the
problems that come from delivering our
apps and services to like people that
live in this planet but when we start
thinking about like how can we deliver
the same quality of service to other
planets we might have to rethink the way
that we architect our applications and
quite actually like when we start
thinking about those problems like
delivering data to other planets will
like have certain questions as always
and comes to light and see when it comes
to better they can achieve and those
problems are really similar to the ones
that we have today when we try to
develop the same quality to developing
countries to remote areas we typically
just don't think about them because we
are so used to have such quality access
to me
internet in the countries in the cities
that we live in so like have you ever I
questioned yourselves like what would
you have to do in order like what would
you have to do to your app or service
that if you are an application developer
of course that will make it like work
everywhere like in every post of the
planet like what will have to change and
and that that's what why we are here
like why we are creating I PFS the way
that I structured his presentation I
wasn't even like too much time to talk
about ipf else you will see like very
cool demos from all the speakers so I
will just like give a very condensed
overview of what I've EFSA's and like
how it works inside and master giving
this like very brief overview so that
everyone has like basic and
understanding I will talk about the
project of mine Colin p.m. on away PFS
it's a module that enables you to use
and I can stall IP phasma install
node.js modules from a PFS so okay
talking about motivation and why I peavy
has started and but first let's talk
about the web the web is like this
platform that we use every day to
deliver applications and services to
users and we are users of the web our
selves we use these applications to
acquire more knowledge to communicate
with our loved ones to run our
businesses like to basically run our
lives but yet like this this platform
that like offers us like these
superpowers is actually a very fragile
like we free lose the connection to the
black one boom like everything is gone
like all the services that we depend on
our way see as soon as we lose the
connection to the backbone and there is
several reasons why it is this way and
definitely not necessarily technical
reasons or like technical workers but
there was decisions made in the past for
simplicity that led the situation where
we live today and most of them boils
down or balls from location addressing
we are very used to the idea of like
having a domain and that domain resolves
to an IP address and the type II address
and
present a point in the network and if we
are looking for certain content on the
network we contact this central point of
authority to tell us what that content
is and to fetch it from it so if looking
at the network and if we are looking for
a foul will identify which machine has
the file and we will cast a request that
file from that machine this is very
simple and might seem totally okay the
problem comes when we have like several
people trying to use the same service so
lucky five I want to show share a photo
with you with everyone in this room and
I will post it to some centralized
service and then like everyone in the
room will try to download that picture
from that centralized service and this
might seem okay because the picture is
like just like this tiny amount of data
and we have been doing that every day
and we know it's fast again because we
are used to this very fast internet that
everyone here has access to well I think
about when we download the video like if
we talk about like a various my scene
and small video like Gangnam style and
if we just make like some very simple
calculations of how much would it cost
for to jump aight hops and do the same
request by 30 machines we would use
forty eight gigabytes of bandwidth just
to watch this one single video and like
we would have to hit the network again
and again and again to download to pass
the same bytes because the network is
not smart enough for the network doesn't
know that it already has the bites it
will just do the request again to the
same backbone services and just really
interesting fact like if we still use
the same example Gangnam style it was
seen more than two and all billion times
we have an effort like a workload of
more than 500 petabytes on bandwidth
alone on the network ax to be used today
and yet we each time we should the video
we are seeing the same content and like
several people have the content and no
one else can see the content to the
network you always have to go to the
central point of a tree
that's just because of the way that
location addressing works and they're
like several other problems like that we
cannot use the web in disconnected
scenarios like we can see today the
Internet of Things land like where the
web is being completely removed from
that space because the web was not
designed to work out fine not like the
caching primitives and work for IOT
devices and another I called problems
with control security permanence that
like if you have more questions I can
definitely go more in depth after the
talks so to solve all these cans I PFS
right I PFS stands for the
interplanetary fault system and it's a
protocol to upgrade the web and when we
meet when we say this we really mean we
want to provide the web in a way that we
don't break compatibility with the user
if we we know that like if we try to
change how the web works and I keep the
users have to do different things to use
this new protocol that will grant them
with other capabilities they will just
not move because they are so used to use
the services that are already there I
PFS is also known as the distributed web
or the permanent web or the Merkel web
in the honour to ralphs team Oracle
which came up with Merkel links and in
an essence is like a protocol to make
the web work of fine to make it
distributed to make it permanent cipher
smarter and especially faster because if
we don't offer like necessarily benefit
like some improvement that the user can
feel and see it's going to be hard to
convince them to change and I PFS is
really a collection of great ideas that
were already present especially in the
research literature that were boiled
down and condensed together and for my
bffs here's like an image of the IP
festac we basically cover all the layers
that like an application with f to touch
in artwork from network routing exchange
data structure that goes into the
network naming and then the applications
which is over
another way to see a PFS is like do we
have a way to move the data around which
we call the way peer-to-peer it's like
the network layer inside the PFS we have
a way to define the data which is known
as the Merkel day or I pld for those
that have been following the latest
developments on the I PFS community and
then we have the applications that are
just use the data that's being moved
around on the on top of a lie PFS stack
and the core piece of a professor like
the really huge contribution is this
idea of how to define data that lives on
the network and that's resolve on a
network and death corpus is the mark of
egg so explain what a miracle tag is let
me first explain what merkel links are
so America link is a way to identify
some other blob of data that exists on
the network by a unique hash like some
unique value that we can always be sure
that we are pointing to the right Bob so
if i have a link on my next fall then i
want to point it to the previous vlog i
just want to make sure that the ash of
that Bob is referenced on this new blog
so i can like create a like a reference
always like like a direction to the
other pieces of data by storing the
ashes on the new elements and this is
what caused the wreck link and michael
links are not new wreckling Zach were
actually like invented and published on
nineteen nineteen eighty again prophecy
America ralph merkle came up with them
and this is the first miracle tree we
use them when we are developing
applications and we use get to cooperate
that's also a miracle tree or michael
has data structure bitcoin which one of
us i've been talking about it's also a
miracle why's that the structure and
there's a ton of other applications that
use Mirko at the structures that we use
every day and yeah so come on joke he's
like who said like money doesn't really
grow on trees right I PFS is this forest
of Merkel eyes data structures and the
really powerful reason why we are doing
this is I think about the
the old early days with CBS or svn we're
like you had several people working on
the same data that I can cooperating
through the network but like if there
was a disconnect from the central server
you would basically basically not be
able to work anymore on that project and
that the same thing goes like if the
server would go down then like all the
clients would simply not work anymore
but then i compute get which changed
completely the the story because like
now we can I cut the connections and the
computers that are still connected can
work together and when they go back
online they cannot just update their
status and like we can crush whatever
you want on a get system as long as we
have some kind of connectivity or that
we have access to our local machine
where we want to work on we can use that
data that we already fetched and I PFS
is doing that for the entire web so
comparing to the example I was giving
earlier where we would like resolve a
domain to an IP with a PFS we resolve a
name which can be a domain name can be
an a penis record or can be any other
kind of naming system that you might
want to use it will be resolved to ash
and again looking at the network this is
HTTP land where we have just this way to
contact one single server which is our
central point of authority will I PFS
anyone can be the point of authority to
get this file and this is because like
when I fetch the file like i identify
the machines that have the file and I
fetch them from the network I have a way
to validate that the file that I
received is the one I'm looking for
because I just need to a and check
if the ash of the file is the one that I
was doing the query in the first place
right and you might be wondering okay
like so what happens if I have really
large files like how can I make this
efficient by like not just relying in
some other node in the network to like
transmits transfer me something that's
really really large and the way that we
solve it is by chunking the file like
each chunk will now be a separate file
that we have got a different edge so
that when we try to get it from the
network will just like try
I to get these little pieces from as
many coins as we can which creates like
a huge speed bump because we are now
transferring the same file but like by
several peers instead of like having
this one single pipe which is what
happens in HTTP we can have a very
complex system behind a single endpoint
in HTTP but we are always just
transferring to a single pipe to our and
client and it doesn't happen without
bffs and in I PFS although it's called
the interplanetary file system data is
actually structured as a graph like you
don't have to only use files files are
just like one of the types of things
that we can represent that we can
represent on I PFS other things can be
represented from get bitcoin key value
stores and like basically any data
structure that you might want to put
their trowels again just an example and
you don't have like strictly to change
your application to think in a way of
files you can just bring your own data
structure and I also you know I PFS and
which what this gives us like all I PFS
gives us like we can have applications
we know our region now like any party on
the network that's like serving to your
application can give you the content
that you're looking for and you can
prove that you have the right thing you
can leverage metals cash and like you
are resilient to network split so you
can like the network can be cutting off
and as long as you are in off of the
network that as the content at you're
looking for you can still resolve it so
like the way to really serve that to
everywhere like to if it's for other
planets or for remote locations it's
just like really leveraged what the
network has already available just like
serve the data from everywhere like if
the machine like if I'm posting a
picture here and you all want to see it
like I can my computer should be able to
just send the picture to your machine
and you should be able to trust that
picture that it was the one that I was
sending in the first place okay so this
was like my very quick introduction to I
PFS there's a lot more
there's a lot more we could talk like
four hours but I only have 10 minutes
and I already spent 14 so next topic
which is n p.m. 0 FF on I PFS that
project I was describing in the
beginning so NP MLPF&S is about putting
package managers running on top of a PFS
and leveraging the serial properties of
a PFS to distribute the software that we
are requiring into our own projects so
when we are doing module management
liking for any kind of language like
transversal there's like always the same
set of challenges we always have to
define scope like what is the module
what can we create it reusable by others
there is always the problems with
discoverability we check historically
people like will do web pages i guess
like some some of you that should be
familiar with all web pages where
someone would host a binary of the
something that they published now there
is like way more advanced web pages
which not only have the the project
else's but also like a commutation and
like the whole community around it but
then I could reach a point where we have
like registries like like community
efforts or companies that like just run
this centralized point where we can
search and unify the package that we
want to reuse 24 hour old code and it's
like there's at least one for every
language available or packaged many
registers that are just segregate all of
them then like we need also to solve the
problem with transport like when we are
building this package manager we have to
like create a tool that people can use
to get the package in the first place
right or we can just like do the old
like the old days which is like tell
them a URL for them to download or just
email at all turbo I don't know like
there is several flavors there and then
like one of the big problems when we are
doing package management is like how to
can we deal with constant websites how
can we form our users like there is
packages right now especially not Jess
community that I get so much traffic get
up late it so much that it's really hard
for the users like to really follow
like what's going on and each time there
is in a play even even if it's just like
one line of code they have to like
download the entire thing in the way
that the current model works and again I
this is like a lot of updates a lot of
traffic there also there is security
page they have to be able to cope with
and they have to identify which packages
exactly have the vulnerabilities and
other problems are like structure like
in the good old days when like everyone
agreed that like a standard library was
the best thing one of the reasons was
because like storage and bandwidth was
very expensive like it was not good for
you to know download leave us be every
time you could we wanted to use USB for
your own software so what they decided
was okay let's ship this operating
system or this language with this
collection of Y breweries that everyone
will probably need and that was like
very beneficial like everyone would have
liked their batteries included when they
were developing in certain language but
that also created a lot of problems with
dependency hell and if like if you are
used to work with not just one of the
things that like NPM the package manager
for knows solves from the start was that
they realize okay we are in 2010 we can
like bend with right now is very cheap
storage is very cheap we can install the
same module in different versions like
thousands of times and the user will not
really complain because he has a lot of
storage and a lot of bandwidth and each
module we will be able to depend on the
specific version that they need and
select adjusting structure now now
organize our code is really important
for the package manager that's like
integrity that's as I described on a PFS
section like IP fescues it from for free
because you are always checking the
continent where you receive and there is
ownership and I quiso all to run it and
update it so like this chain of
challenges like this aight problems need
to be solved for x every package manager
and then I PFS comes along and I
quizzically solves all those problems
for free like if you use it to transfer
your module around like you can
guarantee that those things will be
there and that's what we did when we
create
registry mirror basically we grab the
whole NPM registry all the NPM ecosystem
and we dropped into I PFS because the
way that I in p.m. works it's just like
one more application on top of this web
platform that when we lose the
connectivity it's gone so again same
problem if I try to update a package or
like publisher package everyone is
trying to download it and I keep the
connection drops no one can download no
one can work like if you cannot like
that you know a huge amount of value is
destroyed if we are not able to work
just because we cannot install a package
when that package might be just in the
computer next to us and again I was like
with the package right there and I could
not sit it to the rest of the folks
there so register mirror I have a demo
and I'm glad that I'm really on time
every demo that I recorded because it
requires more hardware so i will explain
as the demo goes so what I'm going to do
in this damn always basically use I PFS
to install packages like using registry
mirror right here I was starting an IPA
fest demon stint like standard I PFS
demon and then I start the registry
mirror process and what I'm going to do
when i do this registry me redeem a
demon okay I cannot stop it from this
screen okay what what happens when I
start that process is like it girls too
i professed network and fetches the
latest index of all of the npn modules
that are available so now i have in my
machine and index of like module name
version and ash so when i try to install
a module for example i'm saying we've
never here and i'm just going to tell i
can start like using the standard NPM
registry use this one that i started
here and like just a proxy when i try to
install the module what uh what happens
is like now registry r is fetching that
module from the IP fence network and it
works like of course like we are like
just downloading data for my PFS but
like what is really interesting so now
i'm on another machine this is actually
vm but shows the the point which is now
you know
machine i'm going to again start an IP
first demon and both the vm and the host
machine i'll connected to the same
router and i will again download a start
register mirror get a local copy of the
NPM registry index and and now after
this happens ok so now just really show
this working i'm just like doing a pink
and i'm going to like kill the internet
right like i'm going to disconnect the
thing is going to stop done like that's
something that you never wanted to write
but now i'm going to install the same
module that I just done all that in
yellow machine but because I'm connected
to the same local area network I can
install the module then like who's
really fast actually I did you know this
like it was faster than normal in for
nvm of course like the module is local
in the same machine the local in the
same network all we have to do is like
to find the other nodes ask for that
module and i transmit the locks so yeah
who like because it's really impressive
and it's very useful if for you are
traveling and ike working like wall
connectivity scenarios and like all your
buddies are developers so probably the
call that they have in their machines is
the one that you need and with this
sandy this mo i hopes that i managed to
kiss me just like a teen overview what
ifs is and what it can do and that's all
I got thank you
thank you David a problem na speaker I
need to give him yeah I'm next a good
thing and all right you can hear me yeah
I need that all right um hi my name is
some way I just realized I forgot to
introduce myself at the beginning um I'm
a software engineer at protocol labs the
company behind or working on I PFS I'm
one of the core developers um what I'm
doing is basically figuring out a way to
do dynamic content on I PFS and i'm
going to show you orbit which is a chat
application on to demonstrate how you
can do this stuff so as you know I PFS
is immune immutable permanent file
system every time you change something
is a different hash so how in that
context can you can you do stuff this is
the basic outline of it and I'm gonna do
a demo live I hope um to show you how
this is so I've locked into orbit the
application and i'm here on this channel
so i can how did you that you can see
that fine right okay good so uh yeah
basically it's like you would expect
from from your chat application um
it has all kinds of you know basic
features of chat emojis nicknames me
other stuff but um that's basically you
know dynamic content right there's new
messages coming up and and so on um
another cool thing i want to show in
orbit is basically adding files to it so
i dragged and dropped a folder of
screenshots here and you can you can
preview them and open them and you see
the hash here you can copy that by
pressing the hash button and you get the
IPF has hatched so you can go and do IP
of his get and you get that file right
um but we can do a little better than
just showing screenshots so here's a
here's a JavaScript module that has um a
bit of code you open it and you can see
the preview of the file right there um
with nice syntax highlighting and so on
but what I also have here is a index
file and as you can see it's the the
JavaScript module in itself o is a cert
VIP FS you could do this locally but i'm
using the gateway just to make sure it
works um so this will just output stuff
in the lock but when you open it and you
open the console you can see the law
here so basically you can deploy your
applications directly in the chat and
they're linkable in ipf s so you can
basically paste in a URL in your browser
and that's it it's the same content um
and as you can see just the data or the
the content of the file so another cool
thing you can do is adding obviously
music and videos so it starts playing
immediately unfortunately I don't have
audio here but I trust me on that and
you can seek into the thing and once you
open another one
we'll start playing automatically I wish
I had audio but we can also add videos
right and we add a video you get a
preview and it will start immediately um
the video right there in the browser and
you can art sorry in the in the shack
and you can also seek the video and so
and so make it full screen so that's
pretty much you know um unfortunately I
don't have anyone chatting with me right
here but you know as you can see there's
is there someone know there's there's
nobody there um anyway so um that's
basically Orban
the JavaScript application wrapped in
electron to make it a native application
on there's a back-end called orbit DB
which is the data structure behind the
whole application and that's using JSI
PFS to connect your local IP office
demon eventually it will be ipf ins in
the browser I hope um so yeah it works
you know just like your regular known on
web application so how do you do that um
orbit DB is basically a key value store
and event lock on it puts the database
into the clients not on any server it's
all in your in the users our clients and
everybody shares the same data it
implements a level up API and you
install it just like you would install
any JavaScript module and so you have a
different kinds of data source like the
event log you add and you get an
iterator on put get four key value store
and so on so how it works is that every
time you add something there into the
database we created an operation
database operation so at put Dell and so
on and so on and we put this into a log
of things but it's basically an append
only a linked list of hashes pointing to
the previous operation so add and then
del at add and so on so on and then
based on that we can construct the view
of the current state of the data in the
database so obviously you don't need all
the million operations to tap the
current state on necessarily and how
that works or like how the operation log
is is done is why i PF syslog this is a
again JavaScript module um and yeah like
said is a linked list that points always
to the hash of the previous one you
can't yeah you can't remove entries
because you know that doesn't work in
the Merkel linking world as WD explained
so
this is basically how it looks on
there's the there's the data of the
database operation and the pointer to
the next entry and they're all like this
and all chained together um the data can
be any kind of data it can be just a
string if you want on or something more
complicated you can create your own data
types on to to create certain types of
indices if you want and so putting it
kind of all together on when you send a
message in orbit it gets put in to I PFS
as an object not as a file that as an
object um then it gets added to orbit it
creates a log entry so the database
command as you saw in the end adjacent
then we take a snapshot of the lock
gives you an idea that's ash and I get
sent to the pops up which is a mechanism
for on replicating the the messages in
to everyone who's on that channel um and
from the pops up the the subscribers so
the the people in the chat receive the
hash then they join that hash the log
from that hash with their local one and
the databases gets get merged that's all
there is to it um so yeah we're still
using a server for for the pops-up
mechanism we're working on I PFS version
of the pub sub eventually i want to add
encryption obviously nothing is
encrypted at the moment so don't use it
for for anything and access rights you
know like if you're familiar with IRC
you want to have certain levels of
access rights but if you if you think
about it a lot of applications a lot of
dynamic content is key values and
relational databases or event logs or
counters or whatnot and with this kind
of approach you can create a lot of
different types of data structures or
ways to use data in your app
location so yeah that's pretty much it
um so yeah you can do like blocks wiki
email even video streaming eventually um
and there's a mention of CR DTS but I'll
I can talk about it later if you anyone
is interested in that on detail level um
if you're interested come help us on
orbit orbit DB all the data structures
the log stuff on if that's up in your
alley let let me know and um we'll
definitely want to have help with that
and also yeah tell us your use cases
what kind of content or data structures
you're you're putting into your
application and wish I PFS had on that
helps us to to provide those kind of
tools and primitives for you two to
build those applications um yeah that's
it come come join us on IRC on I PFS on
the tree don't on through the links to
the different projects on github
please come come and talk to me after
the talks if if there's anything you
want to ask or contact me otherwise
thank you so next up is Alberto from
escribe who's going to talk about thick
chain d be ok can you hear me good ok
can you hear my breath ok wait is it
better
my mouse stopped working for whatever
reason keyboard is working it's enough
whatever okay okay so hello everyone and
I'm going to talk about big chain DB
that is a scalable blocks in database
and it's developed by a scribe and
before we start few words about me my
name is Alberto you can find me on the
internet with this handled BRD like on
Twitter kita whatever me personally I'm
really interested in to like digital
rights Internet freedom and open source
code political open source code and it's
more than one year in working at a
scribe / big chain to be and I found
actually pretty good match between what
I'm doing on what I'm intercept on an
ethical level and what I'm do network
and this is quite a nice fit for me one
quick introductions about Oscar a biome
the TZ service that were also developing
basically a scribe by you is a service
for creators to lock attribution
securely share in trace where work
spreads online so basically if you
create digital content you can use Oscar
aveo as a gateway for the block chain
and time stamp your creations and track
how your digital artifacts spreads
around the around the internet anyway if
we take a step back and we take a look
on how the cloud is been till now if you
have like a even want to develop an
application on the cloud that is just
someone else computer you need like a
cpu somewhere you need to borrow like a
virtual machine and for example I don't
know if you are familiar with Amazon ec2
is a provider of it or machines then you
need storage you need the place where
basically store files that your users my
upload so and then of course you need a
database that is a the place where you
store structured data and this is how
the cloud is bent in has been until now
but something had
like few years ago that is called block
a bitcoin and bitcoin is okay i think
you're almost familiar with bitcoin so
is basically decentralized digital
cryptocurrency i like more the
definition magic internet money and yeah
this is the high-resolution image i
found on reddit anyway bitcoin actually
sparked a really really interesting
revolution in for developers because
some people start to look at bitcoin as
a database so not only not only digital
currency but a database basically place
where you can store and save data and it
has some really really interesting
properties for example it's
decentralized and it's immutable so if
you put something there it will be there
forever even if for example applications
using using the bitcoin as a database
they disappear the data is still there
and this is pretty interesting so I'm
putting a script there on top because a
scribe is using as I said before the
Bitcoin as a database because you're
storing data about I work about the user
users data sorry we're stirring users
data on the Bitcoin block chain and not
only this but there is also another tiny
tiny problem that is related to the
scalability of these blockchain database
so what do you want actually to have
something that is planetary scale we're
talking about interplanetary in
planetary stuff and this life is quite
well so what happens if you want to
create applications using the Bitcoin
blockchain as a database actually this
is a bit difficult right now because the
blockchain is basically about can be a
bottleneck because the Bitcoin
blockchain supports an average of of 1.5
/ two transactions per second globally
and if you think about like the average
throughput of I don't know other
networks like the MasterCard they have
like two three four thousand
transactions per second and it's like
orders of magnitude more than
you can achieve with the with a Bitcoin
block chain and the other question is
are we able technically to achieve high
really really high performance the
answer is yes if we take a step back and
we look on what for example other
companies are doing like Netflix they're
able to reach more than 1 million writes
per second just gathering together like
a lot of Cassandra instances the
databases and they were able to achieve
like last year this nice result so
basically they adding just databases
okay to do their internal network they
were able to achieve 1 million was per
second and 0 2011 actually so even five
years ago it's a really really
interesting blog article you should
check it out is it printer scale well
netflix were able to use was able to use
like thirty-seven percent of the total
internet bandwidth of North American one
day and I think that this is a pretty
pretty huge result so what can what can
we learn basically from from this
example we can learn on how to scale up
the block chain that the D block chain
as as a database so for example there
are two ways we can think on how to
improve the throughput of the Bitcoin
block of the block chain sorry and one
it is to start from the block chain and
add big data characteristic on top of it
so scalability or another approach is to
start from a big data database that we
know the scale end up blockchain
characteristic on top of it like
scalability because our big data
actually it's already is ready for
scalability challenges and what we need
to add on top of it is like this
centralized control and visibility we
decided to block unify big data so what
we're doing basically we keep the good
characteristic of the big data world
that is scalability and on top of it we
are the centralization adding like
having like a Federation of nodes that
are voting on the transactions that are
valid invalid we're at in immutability
adding the hash of the previous block to
the current block where a block is a
container of transactions and then of
course you you need to be able to add
the digital digital assets to it and we
decided to go again in this way so to
add blockchain characteristic to Big
Data and we're using a wet leveraging
database called wreath in DB and then if
you heard about it anyways a really
really powerful database and we decided
to add to it the those blocks in
characteristics this is a really high
level overview of the architecture of
the our system so we use within DB to
handle like interact last communication
so what you see from here it's like you
have some entry nodes and and three
nodes were a big chain TV on the sides
and all those nodes they talk to each
other using rything DB as the intraclass
a communication system the big check
nodes are able to assert new
transactions via Nate HTTP restful api
and basically what the big chain DB not
do the bundle transactions into blocks
and they validate the transactions
inside the blocks and they vote we also
published a white paper that you can
find in fiction calm / white paper and
this is a result that you can you can
find easily in the in the in the white
paper and we were able to reach 1
million writes per second with 32 notes
then we were basically as we created a
cluster of nodes in using ec2 Sam ec2
instances and we were able to achieve
this kind of result that is pretty
pretty interesting so big chain DB is a
it's a blockchain database it has like
really really high throughput more than
1 billion writes per second we loaded in
C capacity we borrow it from the Big
Data world so it's quite big scalability
as a show before we are able to scale
the system linearly adding just notes to
the to the Federation and query since
it's a database you can actually quite
rhian extract the data and this is
pretty interesting so how does it fit
big 10 DB in this scenario show you
before so if you replace the Bitcoin the
Bitcoin blockchain data based on the
bottom right we have picture in DB now
that is decentralized our plan is to
move Oscar by Euro the back end i mean
the the database back-end from the
Bitcoin block chain to the two big chain
DB and this is actually pretty enticing
if you close your eyes a second and
imagine the future this can be the
future can be something like that so we
have using this letter show you this
letter show before for processing you
have a theorem that is basically a way
to handle smart contracts at the run
code in a distributed fashion on the
storage level you have I PFS and then on
the database level you have big chin DB
and our plan is also to use I pld to
basically connect big chain db2 the
files in IGFs and basically that's all
questions later so if you want to know
more you can talk to me or there are
also other people in the engineering
team that are happy to answer your
questions thanks that's amazing stuff
i'm looking forward to hear more more
details um next up we have Marcus Lee to
talk about I PFS droid um I guess evison
on Android you want to put this first
just
hello I'm ligi and this will be a short
talk about I PFS on Android a little bit
of context I'm Andrew Android developer
who really loves decentralization and
Bluffs I PFS the problem is at the
moment when you search for android and I
PFS there is nothing much but I cannot
really wait to use it I want to use
content addressing I don't want to talk
to it so us anymore and last week here
at I can tell in the sea bass there was
mr. Bennett and we had a short talk and
he said end of the year the push for
mobile will start but I think we have to
do something in the in the meantime so
I'm java developer so I was thinking
about we're doing it like kind of
dependency injection so we first defined
the interface and fill it later or with
real decentralized application which we
want but in the meantime we mediate by
just using a centralized service and
this is like I PFS thought I oh that's
doing the same for the web so you can
put in a hash and get the content and
yeah so in the meantime then we can
explore some like use cases and your
expert on mobile because I think mobile
will be really important for I PFS and
we ordered like also in the first talk
like all the use cases and a lot of them
there are mobile ins really good job you
are doing there but we need to push for
my way so I started last week a little
project it's I PFS droid and the first
step the in it is to just handle the IP
FSU else at the moment I PFS colon slash
slash I pns colon slash slash FS /i PFS
and evers I pns give just a short demo
one second and what I don't ride
one thing
so we have some of these URLs aesthetic
immutable content on a BFS it's
resolving that and also like I pns pages
like for the for example di PFS website
the next steps then would be to also
have a content provider like an Android
that's an option to supply data from one
app to the other app and there we have
to use content colon slash slash and
then I pns or I BFS so we can use that
from all the apps and later on just
exchange it for the real stuff document
provider would also be nice that's
fallen picking files from I PFS and an
Android library to really make it easy
to drop in a BFS and don't care for the
rest so that a lot of like adoption in
applications are coming yeah atma you
can also like cross compile I PFS but
there's a problem like with the package
manager at the moment it's not working
like this here iam because I PFS uses
the GX package manager and that's not
supported by the cross compile
unfortunately but we can work on that
there are really interesting possible
applications with a PFS on Android like
an decentralized app store I think would
be really awesome like because everyone
has all the apps on their phones already
why should we go to a central place like
Google and fetch it from there map tiles
also because when you all navigate it
here why should we all get the map tiles
from some central server you all have
them and we should get them and I think
maps is one thing that should be native
like that really won't work with like
who's using like mess and web view on
his mobile phone like so we need that
really native and one thing one
motivation for me like i'm working at
the s pass at the moment and there i
also like neat I PFS but without his
their follow-up like we shouldn't have a
Q&A here but I really want to spark to
communicate
everyone who wants to talk about ipf as
an Android come afterwards talk to me or
if your remote or everything else like
drop me an email yeah all look at you
get up repository guess it was just a
lightning talk have a nice day that's
really really cool stuff so if anyone
out there is interested in I PFS on
Android are on github gonna talk about
IP of his dead drop which is a weird
thing but it's located here in sea bass
so you can try it out later on if you
want yeah can you me right okay now you
can see me okay so let's get started
yeah hello everyone welcome to sea bass
i'm a member of sea bass and i will
present today our project we've done
called the interplanetary dead drop so
like any good drama my talk will be
divided into five parts so first I'm
going to talk about the backstory and
give you a short outline about the
history of sea bass because there's a
lot to talk about then I will show you
how to actually use the day drop so you
can try it out later if you want to and
then I'm going to go into the nitty
gritty details of how we build it and
how it works and talk about some of the
challenges we had on some afterthoughts
and in the last part so let's start with
the backstory so sea bass well some
people say it's a hackerspace but it's
actually a crash space station so it
crashed your buildings of years ago but
it actually comes from the future and
you may ask house as possible and the
answers obviously time loops
and well then you then you ask like is
such a thing even possible well yes it
is so it all started with this device is
called the Siri probe was found in 1995
so you have to imagine bill in the wall
came down like five years prior and it
was all the space that nobody lived in
right in the city center so people dug
up things there and the founding members
of sea bass found this device and it's a
data backup probe from a space station
so it's one of several probes that yeah
is used or should be launched into a
stable orbit around Earth in the case
that something happens to the space
station that you're now sitting in well
CBS crashed on earth and also this serie
probe crashed here later we think so
this is the reason why we know that sea
bass existed so well the well and will
exist yeah because it's a time loop the
the people that found Siri originally
started poking around and like read out
the lock from the device and what they
found out was that seepage crashed on
earth approximately 3.5 billion years
ago so right at the time when life got
started on earth so go figure lelaki but
also showed that sea bass will be in
orbit again and thus our mission as
members of sea bass is to reconstruct
the whole station and take off again in
the future so we can complete the time
loop and the space and time continuum
will not break and so we have this data
probe downstairs standing around and we
were also inspired by a project of the
media artist Tom bottle called use be
dead drops
he basically uses simple USB memory
sticks and fits them into walls and you
can just go there and put your laptop to
the wall and then put files on the USB
stick so we thought like well use be
drop plus I PFS because we are the space
the space station we have viously and
have a real need for an interplanetary
file system that will yeah it's
basically a match made in heaven so so
now I'm going to tell you about how to
actually use the dead drop so it's just
like the USB drops by our bottle we go
and put files on them but it also
publishes them automatically to I PFS
and what you need is a smartphone that
can read a QR code and you need a USB
memory stick with the files that you
want to publish on and you go to the
device you put the USB stick in then you
wait until the data is copied so there's
a little progress bar on this main
screen and then you wait until I PFS
calculated the hash and you can get the
ash as a QR code later and well how did
we build this so Cirie was built by
really the people that start at sea bass
21 years ago it was like this thing was
always standing around here as a kind of
art piece it was originally powered by
an Amiga 2000 so basically like the
technology of that day with a CRT
monitor and like lots of relays
connected now in danger really dangerous
way to mains power so we are all took
that out so technology has progressed
that we can now use LEDs and well we in
2014 2015 we basically replaced
everything with modern technology and in
2016 Henry burgers who's sitting here
and his colleague you
not be from the grid we're already using
I PFS and they suggested like adding
that to the system well and well we
started doing this here at sea bass and
then the organ or two of the organizers
of the Logan CIJ symposium was a
conference in march 2016 there was like
made to bring hackers and investigative
journalists together invited us to like
work on the thing there because we are
originally thought that it might be a
good idea for people to use this I PFS
dad drop to for example leaked documents
or publish things that people don't want
to be published but I have some second
second thoughts on that so later I'll
tell you a little bit about that so and
now it works so there's a simple you def
rule which took a long while to figure
out how to write that just starts a
simple Python script that copies all the
files from the USB stick on drew hard
drive and in the process we publish like
the state of the whole thing as a simple
JSON file that is available using an
HTTP server on the same device and we
have a simple JavaScript single page you
I that works by regularly checking this
JSON file of the Python script rights
and just changes according to what's in
the JSON file so this is how if you ever
want to build something that reacts to
adding USB memory stick to it so this is
the you def rule that you need to add to
your configuration files on your linux
and if you want to do something else
with USB then this monitoring thing is
really nifty and really saved a lot of
time for me so here
bits of the challenges and thoughts that
I want to leave you with so there there
are some challenges when you want to
make something that's running a script
but also has you I there is no way to
tell right now in I PFS how long it will
take for me to upload the whole thing
there's no way for me as a script to get
the data like a percentage like how long
it's going to take for copying the files
I made this work around using the linux
d you or UNIX utility that basically
says how big are the files and our pick
of the files on the target device so I
just compare that but for I PFS there's
nothing like that and then there are
second thoughts about if you want
actually want to use this as a secure
anonymous dead drop so well everyone
everyone who accesses the things will
basically broadcast that they've exited
access the thing so everyone who reads
your leaked documents will also be
exposed and of course as someone who's
like afraid of people leaking their
documents you can just like watch on the
network if certain hashes appear
suddenly like if you can add access to
certain files so that's why I don't
think this is a good idea to leaked
documents and maybe not the right tool
for that for the job yeah but if you
want to look at the source code it's
really short look a look at our github
repository yeah Jana and Henry also
started a project called the I PFS ring
pin which deals with how to like get the
files on to other servers once they're
dropped into our debt drop and yeah
again thanks to union Henry for
collaborating on the project and thank
you all for your attention
alright that's it no um thank you
forward or do all of the speakers that
was fantastic stuff um a really really
big thank you to sea bass for hosting us
tonight um we really really appreciate
that also if you want to have a tour of
the spaceship I the space station sorry
man Henry over here um we'll take people
around and for you around the space
station beerus first um thank you for
everyone watching hopefully the screen
was good um that's it
right